{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Comment[ArrayExpressAccession]	E-MTAB-3011\
MAGE-TAB Version	1.1			\
Investigation Title	Transcriptomics analysis of etiolated Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in response to microgravity			\
Comment[Submitted Name]	Transcriptomics analysis of etiolated Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in response to microgravity\
Experiment Description	Gene expression profile of two-week-old etiolated Arabidopsis seedlings under microgravity on board space flight BRIC16 were compared with ground grown control in both wild-type and act2-3 mutant plants.			\
Experimental Design	genotype design	stimulus or stress design	replicate design	growth condition design\
Experimental Design Term Source REF	EFO	EFO	EFO	\
Experimental Design Term Accession Number	EFO_0001748	EFO_0001762	EFO_0001776	\
Experimental Factor Name	genotype	growth condition		\
Experimental Factor Type	genotype	growth condition		\
Experimental Factor Term Source REF	EFO			\
Experimental Factor Term Accession Number	EFO_0000513			\
Person Last Name	Tang			\
Person First Name	Yuhong			\
Person Mid Initials				\
Person Email	ytang@noble.org			\
Person Phone				\
Person Fax				\
Person Address				\
Person Affiliation				\
Person Roles	submitter			\
Date of Experiment	2010-05-28			\
Public Release Date	2015-10-10			\
Protocol Name	P-MTAB-41645	P-MTAB-41646	P-MTAB-41647	P-MTAB-41648\
Protocol Type	growth protocol	nucleic acid extraction protocol	nucleic acid labeling protocol	nucleic acid hybridization to array protocol\
Protocol Term Source REF	EFO	EFO	EFO	EFO\
Protocol Term Accession Number	EFO_0003789	EFO_0002944	EFO_0003813	EFO_0003815\
Protocol Description	To identify transcripts regulated by microgravity, Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings were grown on the BRIC hardware for two weeks under complete darkness. The experimental design included two genotypes: wild-type (Col-0 ecotype) and the vegetative actin mutant, act2-3 (Nakashima et al. 2014). 150 - 200 seeds of each genotype were planted separately on a single 60 mm Petri dish layered with growth media (Supporting Information Fig. S1A). After planting, a single Petri dish was inserted into a Petri Dish Fixation Unit (PDFU) and sealed with a light-tight metal lid (Supporting Information Fig. S1B). For the transcriptomic work described here, we used four PDFUs for each genotype with three PDFUs representing three biological replicates. Five PDFUs were installed in a single BRIC unit and BRICs were loaded on a foam padded transport unit (Supporting Information Fig. S1C) (Nakashima et al. 2014). One set of BRICs was loaded on the middeck of the Space Shuttle Discovery (spaceflight set) and another set was kept in an Orbital Environmental Simulator at the Space Life Sciences Laboratory at the Kennedy Space Center (ground control set). In summary, the groups of seedlings used for gene profiling analyses described here were ground controls wild-type (GW), ground controls act2-3 (GA), spaceflight wild-type (SW) and spaceflight act2-3 (SA). The Space Shuttle Discovery for mission STS-131 launched from the Kennedy Space Center on April 5, 2010 and landed on April 20, 2010. On orbit and ground control fixation of seedlings was completed 14 days after launch. Seedling fixation on orbit and on the ground was accomplished by releasing RNA Later into the compartment of the PDFU containing the seedlings using an actuator gun (Supporting Information Fig. S1D). Fixed seedlings were retrieved from the BRIC-PDFUs within 4 h after the Space Shuttle Discovery landed for RNA extraction. Additional details about the spaceflight conditions and the BRIC hardware used are described in a series of recent publications (Millar et al. 2011; Paul et al. 2012b; Nakashima et al. 2014).	Total RNA was extracted from the etiolated seedlings using Plant RNeasy Mini kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA). RNA was quantified with the NanoDrop 8000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Scientific, Willmington, DE), and the quality was monitored using the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA). 	Transcription profiling using the GeneChip 3 IVT Express kit and Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array according to the manufacturers instructions (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA). 	Transcription profiling using the GeneChip 3 IVT Express kit and Arabidopsis ATH1 Genome Array according to the manufacturers instructions (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA). \
Protocol Hardware				\
Protocol Software				\
Term Source Name	ArrayExpress	EFO\
Term Source File	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/arrayexpress/	http://www.ebi.ac.uk/efo/		\
Term Source Version				\
Comment[AEExperimentDisplayName]	Transcription profiling by array of etiolated Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings in response to microgravity			\
Comment[AEExperimentType]	transcription profiling by array			\
SDRF File	E-MTAB-3011.sdrf.txt\
}